So your exercise for
the next ten minutes is to go ahead and
do what I did inside of photoGallery.
And we're gonna move the todoViewer
into composition API.
And so again, you'll always have the app
photo gallery as a reference, and
with that I'll see you all in ten minutes.
So I apologize kind of with
the mix up with the branches.
If you had issues pulling, I had to force
push a little bit into the exercise
because I forgot that my changes were
technically a reversion on the history.
And so another thing you might run into
as well is that if you're having issues,
if the terminal is yelling at you
to be like, I can't find Nuxt or
I don't know where something is,
make sure you're in the app directory.
Cuz I know this is kind of atypical from a
normal project where everything's just on
the route.
And so
just make sure you switch directory,
that should help to resolve
any issue you have.
I do have a great question here though,
an error that's being shown,
which is that template route
requires exactly one element.
One of the things to check is make
sure you have volar on and not veeder.
If you have both on at the same time,
sometimes you'll get
the wrong error message.
Because, basically,
this is a good question regardless,
is that prior to Vue 3 and
for a lot of frameworks,
you had to wrap everything in divs and
you got div sup, right?
Divs wrapped everywhere because
of that single div limitation.
For those who followed Vue 3's
development, you'll know that one of
the features that come with Vue 3 is
that you don't need that anymore,
you can have multi-route components.
It comes with its own set of caveats
of making sure you define everything
correctly.
The reason it's still relevant in Nuxt
though, even though as you can see here,
it's technically not
yelling at me right now.
Eventually if we keep doing this as
we progress further in the workshop,
you will get that error.
Because there comes a point where,
particularly when Nuxt is rendering
a page, it has no idea how to handle
something that has more than one route.
Because if it's swapping a page in and
out, it would just be a nightmare to
try to figure out which part of the route
is supposed to be hydrated where, and
how do you code bundle split that thing?
So just know that as a rule,
Vue 3 allows you to do multi-route.
So just know that this is
not a Vue 3 limitation.
But rather basically, especially once
you start doing navigation with Nuxt,
that's one of those things where to
help a page transition and stuff,
those will have a single route element.
But just know that it's
not a Vue 3 limitation.
Great, all right,
glad I answered your question.
Although fun fact, we had someone here in
the room who ran into the dot value bomb.
So [LAUGH] it's just one of the things,
it does happen.
You just kinda forget,
you're just like, yeah,
I'll just do it todo List.filter,
is great.
[LAUGH] So again, that's why some people,
they just like using reactive, right?
And just for the sake of
demonstrating what I mean by that,
I know what happened, it's totally fine.
We'll fix it in this one.
But okay, so let me very quickly convert
this over to comp API, cuz I was like,
why does it look like options again?
But it's fine, it would've been
good practice for anyone who,
[LAUGH] you can always get
more practice with this stuff.
So what I'm gonna do here is quickly
switch over the composition API, and
I'm gonna do it just as full speed, so
I'm not basically gonna explain myself.
But basically, again, I'll just try to
somewhat mention things, there's my ref.
And then here, I'm deleting that,
deleting that, there's that.
I'm gonna make these things const.
I'm using multi-cursor select by the way,
so I'm just basically doing Cmd + Click.
And then this is a callback function,
but I need to wrap this with computed.
And then I just need to close that off,
multi-cursor click for the win,
then function.
So actually just a fun little opinion
piece, I don't think there's a right or
wrong with this, again, at all.
But I used to actually just declare
functions like this, cuz I liked the error
syntax, but I realized over time, you just
get this long list of consts and lets.
And there's something actually kind of
nice about it visually just telling you,
function.
And then, sure,
you don't get the error syntax, but
I think especially with composition API,
the longer your list of things is,
it's nice to have that visual separation.
So again, that's my personal thing that T
think I'm starting to adapt a little bit
when I'm writing this.
But otherwise, again,
please feel free to do as you wish.
In this speed run, what you saw me do is
that we imported ref and computed, and
then from view as we did before.
And this time, just like we did before,
we're gonna actually make sure that we
declare every variable with
the appropriate helper method.
This is the key thing.
And to be honest, it is something that's
actually really nice about the synta.
Because what you're telling people,
right, because what we've seen in some
frameworks lately is that they start
to change how the compiler works, so,
for example, const todoList2 like this.
If you just do let,
they'll override the compiler so
that the array automatically
becomes reactive.
And I don't think there's anything wrong
with that, in fact, it's very clean and
it starts to make it feel very natural,
right, for
people who are used to
assigning things that way.
But for the sake of, I know that a lot of
people talking about JavaScript in terms
of using the native JavaScript and
learning how it works.
This is actually much closer, and I think
it follows that convention of, this is not
just ES6 JavaScript you can run in
the browser and just expect it to work.
This is something that you're
using Vue to help you out with.
And that's one of the things I do like
about the helper methods in composition
API, is that, it's very explicit when
you're having Vue come to help out.
Versus having compiler macros that
wouldn't necessarily translate to another
environment if you don't have that.
So just a stylistic thing, but
I think one of things that I do
like about these helper methods.